It may also be appropriate
to look at the company's
health in terms of how they're operating.
So do they have funding and investment?
And how recently have they got investment,
and
how many rounds of investment have they
had if they have that kind of company?
Now, the reason that I suggest this
is because investors are very demanding.
And there are a lot of downsides that
come with getting venture capital, and
a company can very quickly implode
if it's taken a lot of investment.
And that then opens up an opportunity,
right?
So I can give you a real example of this.
There's a budgeting app that I've used for
years called YNAB, You Need a Budget.
I don't think it's ever taken investment,
I might be wrong, but
it's certainly not primarily
operated like that.
And it's been the kind of minor player
in the market compared to Mint,
right, which I'm sure you've heard of.
And Mint was venture capital-based and
then imploded suddenly, and
YNAB have done an amazing job at basically
saying, hey, did you use to use Mint?
This is how you move across to YNAB, so
there was a market opportunity there.
So you can look at a kind
of competitor and go, well,
they've taken a lot of investment.
And the last investment they
took was quite a long time ago.
They must be coming to
the end of their runway.
There might be an opportunity here, right?
And then growth metrics,
how much are they growing,
are they expanding, and particularly
what areas are they growing in?
So for example, geographic expansion,
because, for example, what's the one here?
FreshBooks, I don't know whether you've
heard it, it's like accounting software.
Yeah, yeah, it's big over here, right?
They've hardly got any footprint
in the UK because, in the UK,
there's something called FreeAgent,
which is basically FreshBooks.
Okay, so FreeAgent were able to say,
we're focused on
the UK market with the UK tax,
the UK issues that we have.
And so they have dominated
the market in a geographical area.
So you need to pay attention to where
competitors are operating, all right?
>> Where do you get this information from?
>> It's not hard to find, in fact.
I mean, a lot of the time
it's on their website, right?
If you dig into that About section
that nobody ever looks at,
you can find it in there.
You can also search for them information
on places like Crunchbase and
it'll tell you whether they've
had previous investment.
A quick Google of the name of
the company and investment,
for example,
will often tell you what you need to know.
So it's not actually as
difficult as you think.
I mean, you might miss stuff,
right, and that's fair enough.
We're not trying to be super thorough,
we're just trying to get
a picture of what's going on.
And I know I'm throwing a lot of
different things to look at and
it might be a bit overwhelming.
You can go as deeply or
otherwise into this,
depending on how risk-averse you are.
I'm very risk-averse as a person,
so I don't wanna waste my time and
money, and so I tend to get quite into
the weeds of this kind of stuff, right?
But you might be like, well, I'm half
doing this for fun anyway, so I'm willing
to kind of not worry too much about
that side of things, and that's okay.
As long as you're going into it
with your eyes open, it's fine.
You could be as cavalier or
as risk-averse as you wanted.
I look at innovation, so I tend to
keep an eye on what new features or
products they've recently rolled out.
A lot of apps have roadmaps on them of
what they've done and what they're doing.
They've also often got newsletters,
where you could look through their back
catalog and you'll see how often
they're releasing new features and
how often they're rolling out new stuff.
A company that is very slow in
rolling out new features or
improvements, not just features,
often tends to lose
customers over time because
we like the new and shiny.
And the other thing is you might find
a company that has stretched itself too
thinly, a quite small company that
started another app and actually,
their attention is on the other app,
not on this one.
Yeah, Mark, go for it.
>> On the other end, I've seen over
the 12 years that we've been in business,
companies that are constantly launching
new thing, new thing, new thing.
And you're realizing that they're
actually running out of steam.
They don't have a solid business model,
and
they often go out of business right after.
>> Yeah, no,
that is a fair point, actually.
Yeah, I hadn't considered that, I agree.
>> It happens all of the time.
And the ones that kind of
focus on the core business and
seem to just continue to add value to
that core thing are the ones that you can
see that they actually have a real
business and they're succeeding for
a decade plus, don't need to change as
much because they've really niched down to
their market and
they're fulfilling it, right?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> And so
that's the other end I've seen a lot.
>> Listen to Mark.
If I'm particularly caught up in
this rabbit hole of market research,
I'll also pay attention to things
like patents and technologies.
Are they using any unique
piece of technology or
they've got a particularly great tech
stack that gives them an advantage?
But it's not really my area of expertise,
so I don't normally spend a lot of time
on that, but
it might be of more interest to you.
Talking of technology,
there are some things I do pay attention
to from a technology side of things.
I pay a lot of attention to performance,
does their apps run fast?
Slow apps will drive people mad, and
that can be another angle
you could get in there.
Reliability, is it like Twitter,
up and down, as it used to be?
No, that's just dating me,
that reference, isn't it, really.
Twitter hasn't been up and down for years.
Security, have they had really
any high-profile breaches?
That can often be a good
opportunity to step in.
Privacy, what are they
doing with customer data?
Is that an opportunity to
differentiate yourself?
So that's kind of how I look at
competitors, and I'll spend a little
while picking over that stuff and
kind of gathering all the information.
But I mean, then it's really,
well, what do you do with all this
information once you've got it, really?
Cuz it's all well and good collecting it,
but if you don't do anything with it,
you've wasted your time.
So I primarily use it for
spotting gaps in the market where
I might be able to sneak in.
So I'm looking for feature gaps,
missing features that might
include things like integration or
data privacy, things that they're
not handling particularly well.
I look for experience gaps.
In other words, their app's UI sucks,
or their customer service sucks, or
something along those lines.
But my favorite of all is audience gaps.
Is there a niche or a region that
the competitor has failed to target?
For me, that's the strongest in is
when there is something like that.
I also, yeah, go for it.
>> So I'm just thinking that you've done
all this research and you find out that
company X has some feature gaps,
experience gaps, and audience gaps.
>> Yeah.
>> What about just going to them and
pitching them your idea?
>> Yeah, absolutely, if that's
something that you want to do and
the way you wanna go, then by all
means do it, that's perfectly valid.
It depends on what you wanna get out
of this at the end of the day, right?
If you're after income
that's not related to,
that you can get a regular income,
if you like the idea of running an app,
those kinds of things,
then maybe you don't wanna do that.
But if you wanna, get then on board, and
you like the idea of having a big partner
and you don't mind sharing ownership
over it and those kinds of things,
then absolutely, it's an option.
Yeah, go.
>> Yeah, I think what you're talking
about is channel partnerships, and
it's a big way that we've
grown over the years.
So in the early days, we licensed all
of our courses to Pluralsight, and
Pluralsight was the 100 pound
gorilla in the early days.
And so that's a channel partnership,
taking your product and
putting it on a marketplace, or
whatever, getting fees back.
And I think a lot of these apps,
they also have channels like plug-ins or
something like that.
And if you go into the plug-in marketplace
and you publish a plug-in there,
that's a way that you can get
some distribution for your app.
And so any time that large products
have these kind of marketplaces or
plug-ins or whatever,
think about how can I somehow
leverage the large thing
to get some traction?
Yeah, you're not gonna make
as much money doing that, but
you're gonna at least get awareness
that then you can go off and
build a sustainable
business in the future.
>> And
I think that last part is the key part,
because one of the big mistakes that
I see people make quite a lot is
they build their business on
somebody else's business, right?
And when you do that,
you are very vulnerable.
So you see it all the time with people who
sell via Etsy or they sell via Amazon.
Amazon is the worst for it, right?
People sell on the Amazon Marketplace
cuz it's nice and easy to do.
And then, Amazon are tracking
all the data and they go,
well, this thing sells very well,
I'm gonna sell that now.
And they just decimate other people's
businesses in the blink of an eye.
Another really common one is people
that build their business on somebody
else's API.
For a long time, well,
Twitter was a great example of that.
Remember Tweetbot was a far better Twitter
client than the Twitter client was and
we all used that for a while.
And then suddenly at some point Twitter
said, well, we're changing our API so
you can't use it like that and
decimated their business again.
So spotting gaps is obviously a big
part of what we get out of doing
market research, but
it's not the only thing.
I think also market research
can help us innovate and
move a sector forward and move our own
product and service forward as well.
So we can look at technology, for example,
cuz technology is evolving all the time,
and a lot of competitors that kind of,
understandably, if their existing
product's in the marketplace,
they're built on legacy technology.
They don't get to use the new shiny toys.
That's what you get to do, and they
might retrofit some of those things in,
but that's not the same as
building them in from scratch.
And we can see this at the moment with AI,
every product you can possibly
imagine is cramming AI into it.
But that's very different to building an
app that's got AI in from the ground up.
So there are opportunities for
us to innovate and
separate ourselves from the competitors
using new technologies.
Values is another great way of innovating.
So it doesn't apply in every situation,
but people's values change over time.
And so if you're launching an app today,
you can tap in more to
the values that people have today,
rather than those in the past.
So great examples are that
sustainability is very high on
people's agenda these days, as is privacy.
And so you can build an app with those
things baked in from the beginning, okay?
And that gives you a story to tell in the
market, gives you a competitive advantage.
You couldn't build a whole business
just around those things, but
it's another aspect that
you can bring to the table.
And then also, you can innovate
with business models as well.
So there are alternative business
models that other people within
the market might not be using,
the Freeman model or flexible pricing.
There's lots of different
opportunities and, as I said,
we'll get into pricing and
a lot more later.
So there are, you can look for
gaps in the market, you can look for
opportunities to innovate in the market,
and you can look for
opportunities to optimize in the market.
In other words, do it better
than the competitors are doing.
So you can make it faster, right?
Can you enable people to
achieve more in less time?
That's always a big selling point for
a lot of people, so
you can gain an advantage there.
You might just make it better.
Can you offer the ability to do more or
to a higher standard
than the competitors can?
And the other one is the obvious one,
can you make it cheaper?
Can you offer the same as competitors but
at a lower price point?
So there are lots of ways that you can
take what you're learning about your
competitors and actually apply that to
the direction you go with your own app or
your own business idea.